Quality Assurance - QA Stages, Formatting, Guidelines and Web Quality Assurance Handbook (#95)
langleyfoxall/technologies: qualityassurance/qastagesformattingguidelines.md

# ♻️ QA Testing Stages, Formatting and GuideLines

This Section is to instruct on when to test, how you should be formatting the Bugs raised and GuideLines for QA

## Developing with QA in mind

### Commands

> When you are developing the project the project might require commands to run and work correctly, these can range from simple set up commands to automatic updating commands, a list of these commands and a breif description of what these commands do will help QA move more smoothly and avoid raising unnecessary questions.

Reviewer: brief is mispelt

> Some projects requires certain status or manipulation of the database to update systems and cause it to do the next stage/part of the system to test. We would like these to be formed into Commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error and this is leading it away from how the customer would user the system. So these processes need to put into commands where it will update the database for the required data with the correct process to ensure that it is changed to how the system will change it when on live.

Reviewer: I disagree with this line - Spending extra development time to write commands to automatically trigger stages outside of the lifecycle of the application I don't feel is effective use of dev time, QA should typically move through the application as a user so commands should usually never be necessary to trigger.

For testing that does require certain conditions to be met like a date being past a certain other date etc, changing the value in the database is easy enough & IMO doesn't warrant dedicated development time.

I do agree commands should be written for very complex processes & triggers that wouldn't be practical to achieve by the tester but these are far and few between, there are a lot more cost effective solutions though like manually triggering Chron jobs etc.

In relation to QA not having to touch the DB, it depends on the kind of testing taking place. black box testing needs access to the database. white box testing does not etc.

@MaxHarrisonGit I'd love to hear your opinions on this.

> Some projects requires certain status or manipulation of the database to update systems and cause it to do the next stage/part of the system to test. We would like these to be formed into Commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error and this is leading it away from how the customer would user the system. So these processes need to put into commands where it will update the database for the required data with the correct process to ensure that it is changed to how the system will change it when on live.

Author: Thanks for the feedback, As we are doing black box and white box testing we would need the option to do it entirely from the front end with only the bare minimum manipulation of data to test, to ensure that everything it working when you don't manipulate the data. 
This was more in general, Because we want to do box White and Black box testing we need to have both taken account for when developing. 

In terms of doing simple commands these are "Required" however it would have QA if we have new users come in, seeing a large database and being told to just change 2 things in two what seems to be random tables, you can easily forget, so either having a nice simple command set there, or having documentation of what is exactly need to do and what the outcome is and why would would do it, either would help flow and help improve the speed of testing. 

@AlexCatch Would Like to hear your feedback to this 😄

> Some projects requires certain status or manipulation of the database to update systems and cause it to do the next stage/part of the system to test. We would like these to be formed into Commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error and this is leading it away from how the customer would user the system. So these processes need to put into commands where it will update the database for the required data with the correct process to ensure that it is changed to how the system will change it when on live.

Reviewer: I'm happy to require documentation for procedures of steps and triggers that aren't obvious & commands for edge cases 👍

> Some projects requires certain status or manipulation of the database to update systems and cause it to do the next stage/part of the system to test. We would like these to be formed into Commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error and this is leading it away from how the customer would user the system. So these processes need to put into commands where it will update the database for the required data with the correct process to ensure that it is changed to how the system will change it when on live.

Author: @AlexCatch I have edited to Document to Reflect this 😄Can give it a quick read over and confirm that We are on the same page

Timing is a very important point in the merge between Staging and Prod, We do not want to do it at peak working hours as if something does go wrong it doesn't effect our customers and doesn't impact on our relationship to them. We also do not want to do it on a Friday or before any period that we will not be in the office for a few days. As we want to be able to fix the issue as fast as possible and not make the customer wait. Preferably this merge would be done at night with both Q/A and Dev in incase something does need fixing, But this is not possible. Every customer is different to when it would be best to merge, So ask if in doubt ask the project lead or a manager to when they would advise the merge.

## Test Cycle

Test cycles are a collection of tests that need to be ran. Cycles should always be given a time frame and a time estimate to ensure that we are completing them in a timely manner and to enable management to work out work flows.

### Tests
For Stage 2, Stage 3 and stage 4, a list of tests is required, this is to keep track of what needs to be tested and to ensure that all functionality is tested and to ensure we don't do any unnecessary testing.

> The structure of the tests are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The structure of the tests are as follows:
```

- Test Name
- Priority
    - Critical
    - High
    - Medium
    - Low
- Expected Outcome
- Estimated time to complete testing

> - Area of Testing (Such as the what Pages/Screens)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Area of Testing (Such as the what pages/screens)
```

> - Test Data (If Required)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Test Data (If required)
```

### Testing Status

> Each test requires a status once completed. The Status are as follows;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each test requires a status once completed. The statuses are as follows:
```

- Passed – The testing passed and has been confirmed to work as expected.
	- Data Required 
		- Notes.
		- Test data used.
		- Screenshots if relevant.
		- Your Name.
- Failed – The testing failed and is not working as expected.
	- Data Required
		- Notes.
		- Test Data used.
		- Bug Number Raised.
		- Your Name.

> - Blocked – Testing has not been started as can’t be tested due to a Bug Already Raised by a failed test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Blocked – Testing has not been started as can’t be tested due to a bug already raised by a failed test.
```

	- Data Required
		- Notes.
		- Bug Number Raised.
		- Your Name.

> - OOS (Out of Scope) – Test has been moved to OOS as it is not in the scope of testing for this Stage of Testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- OOS (Out of Scope) – Test has been moved to OOS as it is not in the scope of testing for this stage of testing.
```

	- Data Required
		- Manager who confirmed OOS.
		- Your Name.

### Raising A Bug

When you find a bug, you will need to raise a bug on the Jira Service Desk.
This bug will require multiple areas to be filled in, these are as Below:

![Jira Bug Raising](images/jira/raising-bugs.PNG)

### Test Data

> When testing on Staging and Prod we will require valid data and logons to access the system. These should be stored in a Google Docs that the Project Lead/Manager should have access to, These should be kept up to date. This should contain data that you need or is helpful to have when you are testing the given project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When testing on Staging and Prod we will require valid data and credentials. These should be stored in a Google Docs that the Project Lead/Manager should have access to, these should be kept up to date. This should contain data that you need, or is helpful, to have when you are testing the given project. 
```

# ♻️ QA Testing Stages, Formatting and GuideLines

> This Section is to instruct on when to test, how you should be formatting the bugs raised and guideLines for QA

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section is to instruct on when to test, how you should be formatting the bugs raised and guidelines for QA.
```

## Developing with QA in mind
### Commands
When you are developing a project, the project might require commands to run and work correctly, these can range from simple set up commands to automatic updating commands, a list of these commands and a brief description of what these commands do will help QA move more smoothly and avoid raising unnecessary questions.

> Some projects require certain status or manipulation of the database to update systems and cause it to do the next stage/part of the system to test. We would like these to be formed into commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error. This will allow the tester to carry out complex tasks without directly modify the database or sensitive areas of the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some projects require data to have certain statuses and manipulation of the database may be required to force the system onto the next process. We would like these to be formed into commands, QA should not need to touch the database side to test the system, this leads to user error. This will allow the tester to carry out complex tasks without directly modify the database or sensitive areas of the application.
```

### ENV

> Ensure that the 'env.example' is update and remove redundant fields/areas that are not required anymore.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure that the 'env.example' is up to date and remove redundant keys that are no longer required.
```

		
## QA Stages

> For staging we are following a multi stage testing to enable us to ensure that the customer is getting a bug free and fully functioning system. This will be a merge between 'Agile' and 'Waterfall'.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For staging, we are following a multi-stage testing methodology to enable us to ensure that the customer is getting a bug free and fully functioning system. This will be a merge between 'Agile' and 'Waterfall' methodologies.
```

> ### Stage 1 - Dev Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stage 1 - Development Testing
```

> This stage is for the developers to test and ensure that there are not obvious bugs and that the code is working as expected before they create a PR (Pull Request). This will ensure that QA is not wasting time on obvious bugs that could have easily been spotted during development and be fix them before the pull request is made.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This stage is for the developers to test and ensure that there are no obvious bugs and that the code is working as expected before they create a PR (Pull Request). This will ensure that QA is not wasting time on obvious bugs that could have easily been spotted during development and be fixed them before the pull request is made.
```

												
### Stage 2 – PR (Pull Request) Testing
At this stage the PR has been created and must adhere to the following criteria before being accepted.

> One check will be from a member of the development team to check over the code is to review the code itself. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One check will be from a member of the development team to check over the code and to review the code itself to ensure it meets our internal standards.
```

> The other check will be from QA, that will test the code changes itself, ensure that it is working and there are not bugs in the relevant area. This is more of a 'Spotlight Check', focused testing around each change that has been made and near areas that could be affected by this change. No matter how small an issue might seem it must be reported and signed off before continuing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The other check will be from QA, that will test the code changes itself, ensure that it is working and there are no bugs in the relevant area(s). This is more of a 'Spotlight Check', focused testing around each change that has been made and near areas that could be affected by this change. No matter how small an issue might seem it must be reported and signed off before continuing.
```

> Once both parties have accepted the code we will then go onto Stage 3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once both parties have accepted the code we will then proceed to stage 3.
```

												
### Stage 3 – M2S (Master to Staging) Testing

> This area of testing is large end to end testing. We start by creating a new user, with a cleared database (as much as can be cleared). Testing will be used as if the customer was using the system, this would include all different user types such as: client, admin, worker. If a customer has a web application, mobile application, and any other applications then this process will be repeated for each one until QA is confident to say that the applications are working as expected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This area of testing is large end to end testing. We start by creating a new user, with a cleared database (as much as can be cleared). Testing will be used as if the customer was using the system, this would include all different user types such as: client, admin, and/or worker. If a customer has a web application, mobile application, and any other application(s) then this process will be repeated for each application until QA is confident to say that the application(s) are working as expected.
```

> ### Stage 4 - Prod Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stage 4 - Production Testing
```

This area of testing is to test all key functionally of the application on prod to ensure that the application can function and does function as expected.
If any urgent issues are found they should be raised and created as hotfixes, if they are not urgent they should go into the development branch and start the testing process again (from stage 2).

> #### Staging - Prod Merge Timing

Reviewer: I think this section might lean towards deployment procedures rather than QA & as merging into production isn't inherently dangerous at certain times unless deployment is paired with the merge as this could impair out ability to fight any fires.

> #### Staging - Prod Merge Timing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Staging - Production Merge Timing
```

> Timing is a very important point in the merge between Staging and Prod.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Timing is a very important point in the merge between staging and production.
```

> - We do not want to do it at peak working hours as this increases the chance of disrupting customer workflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We do not want to merge at peak working hours as this increases the chance of disrupting customer workflow.
```

> - We do not want to do it towards the end of the day as if something were to go wrong it would delay resolution times until the next morning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We do not want to merge towards the end of the day as if something were to go wrong it would delay resolution times until the next morning.
```

> - We do not want to do it on Fridays as if something were to go wrong it would delay resolution times until the next working day.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We do not want to merge on Fridays as if something were to go wrong it would delay resolution times until the next working day.
```

It is worth noting that each customer has different situations and stances on when they want their applications updating. So it is always worth confirming with the customer before hand.

## Test Cycle
Test cycles are a collection of tests that need to be ran. Cycles should always be given a time frame and a time estimate to ensure that we are completing them in a timely manner and to enable management to organize work efficiently.

### Tests

> For stage 2, stage 3 and stage 4, a list of tests is required, this is to keep track of what needs to be tested and to ensure that all functionality is tested and to ensure we don't do any unnecessary testing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For stage 2, stage 3 and stage 4, a list of tests is required. This is to keep track of what needs to be tested and to ensure that all functionality is tested and to ensure we don't do any unnecessary testing.
```

- Test name
- Priority
    - Critical
    - High
    - Medium
    - Low
- Expected outcome
- Estimated time to complete testing
- Area of testing (such as the what pages/screens)
- Test data (If required)

### Testing Status
Each test requires a statuses once completed. The status are as follows:
- Passed – the testing passed and has been confirmed to work as expected.
	- Data required 
		- Notes.
		- Test data used.
		- Screenshots if relevant.
		- Your name.
- Failed – The testing failed and is not working as expected.
	- Data required
		- Notes.
		- Test data used.
		- Bug number raised.
		- Your name.
- Blocked – Testing has not been started as can’t be tested due to a bug already raised by a failed test.
	- Data required
		- Notes.
		- Bug number raised.
		- Your name.
- OOS (Out of Scope) – Test has been moved to OOS as it is not in the scope of testing for this stage of testing.
	- Data required
		- Manager who confirmed OOS.
		- Your name.

### Raising A Bug
When you find a bug, you will need to raise a bug on the 'Jira Service Desk'.
This bug will require multiple areas to be filled in, these are as Below:

![Jira Bug Raising](images/jira/raising-bugs.PNG)

### Test Data

> When testing on 'Staging' and 'Prod' we will require valid data and credentials. These should be stored in a 'Google Docs' that the project lead/manager should have access to, these should be kept up to date. This should contain data that you need or is helpful to have when you are testing the given project. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When testing on `staging` and `production` we will require valid data and credentials. These should be stored in a 'Google Docs' document that the project lead/manager should have access to, these should be kept up to date. The document should contain data that you need or is helpful to have when you are testing the given project. 
```
